# IS6812
This is a repository for my MSBA program. It is a practice project about the company Home Credit and we are trying to predict a customers default risk. This project is through kaggle and the link is: https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/home-credit-default-risk/overview. 

## Business Problem
Home Credit provides financial services and aims to help people who are unbanked to offer financial inclusion. Home Credit has to be able to predict their client’s ability to repay a loan, however, their clientele might not have the typical historical data that other banks have access to which can make this difficult. They want to avoid rejecting customers if they are actually capable of repayment and give them loans with principal, maturity, and a payment plan. Our goal is to reduce default rates by predicting a customer’s ability to pay back a loan. . We are here to create a model that improves the accuracy of accepting clients who are capable of repayment.

## Our Solution
We created a logistic regression model that achieved an AUC score of 0.7473 and kaggle score of 0.73880. This model reached the highest scores in both categories. We used predictors that typical banks might use, such as external credit scores and credit amount of loan, and predictors that described the client, like gender, days employed, and owning a car. We found that those who did not have credit scores or a typical credit history, it was important to look into the individual client to try and get an understand of what their credit could look like. We also made a point to make sure their predictors were highly significant to the target variable. 

## My Contributions
I helped in cleaning and preparing the data and doing the final details of the cleaning to make sure our models would work. I also created most of the logistic regression models and NB model. Handling the outliers was apart of my work and creating model submissions. Finally, I created the PowerPoint presentation. 

## Business Value
By approving creditworthy clients at the best rates, Home Credit can increase its profits. This approach allows the company to convert what was previously an opportunity cost into a source of revenue, while also reducing losses by avoiding the mistake of approving clients who are unable to repay.

Home Credit can use our model to help loan officers make a more educated decision on accepting a loan application. It can also help them look into key variables such as external credit scores and current credit bureau debt. This model can also give them more insights if clients are missing typical historical credit data and if problems come up doing the process, loan officers can dive deeper into asking questions to the client based off past history. We would want to share our results with key stakeholders and request to start a trial basis using this model. We would train loan officers on how to use the model to help make their decisions. After the trial period, we would again share the results and observe if we can make any improvements to the model.

Some next steps that we would want to include is creating new models or adding in feature engineering. We feel like this could better explore the complexity of variables and could improve the model. We also would recommend doing customer segmentation based off of risk. For example, creating groups based off external credit scores, age, income level, or bureau debt could be a good option for the company. Using predictors with the highest significance, can make grouping a safe option for Home Credit. 

## Difficulties 
Some difficulties that we encountered was using all datasets that were given. This was difficult when we combined all of the dataset together. We had to aggregate on different variables and one client could have many rows. This was challenging because of how large the datasets were. When we combined them we also found the issue of duplicate columns and NA's being introduced. We had to go through and drop duplicate columns and go back through the cleaning process. The cleaning process was difficult because the first few models I attempted failed because of issues within the data, so it was a long process of trial and error. Another difficulty, was time. This whole process was very time consuming to run the notebooks. Our chunks of code were large and the data was large, usually making run time signifcant. This made it hard to make more models.

## What I learned
I learned how to work with messy, real-world data that required extensive cleaning and merging across multiple datasets to be able to build an effective model. The dataset had a strong class imbalance, which taught me techniques like using appropriate evaluation metrics (e.g., AUC instead of accuracy), resampling methods, which we did not end up doing, and model tuning to address this issue. I learned how to align machine learning outputs with business objectives like minimizing default risk and maximizing profit.
